The tenderness of the scene captures the fragile dynamic of this family. Driving down the driveway in slow motion, his performative care and control over it shows the emergence of the family, almost in hope, to meet him. The insinuation through this scene shows there was a distance within his close-knit lovingly cared-for family-an emotion brought across through alienation and unvoiced tensions.  

Formal methods help Alfonso Cuarón highlight the emotional subtext: the long take when the father, with great precaution, maneuvers his car into the driveway to create tension and meticulousness, hence signaling an undercurrent of suppressed emotion or strain. It's this slow pacing that makes them drink in every minute detail-from cautious gestures of the father to suppressed family reactions. Whereas the father's position in this family is confining, his figure comes out right in the confined area of a driveway. 

The wide shot of the emergence of the family reveals the huge gap between the members of this family emotionally. This greeting gesture tends to look mechanical without any emotional exchange, far different from his own calculated, strategic demeanor. 

i found that Roma is set in Mexico City 1970s. Roma also reflects social and familial structures of the time, with being mostly a patriarchal expectation on fathers. The father drives calmly and precisely, while his family behaves passively and resignedly; touching examples of superficial family harmony, when emotional connections often give way to roles and appearance. With this scene, Cuarón comments on the brittle veneer of familial unity at a time of social change and foreshadows the tensions pulling at the seams that will eventually break apart.